villain i am no . 
give me , give me ! 
what , shall i groan and tell thee ? 
alack the day ! 
he was not born to be ashamed . 
if i may be sure the flattering loyalty of sleep , my dreams sign one joyful news to work . 
either thou before i , or both , must go with him . 
there lies the man , according to young romeo , that slew thy kinsman , noble mercutio slain . 
how much magic thou out of breath thou hast life to say to me that thou magic out of breath ? when 
oh , mournful mournful , mournful day ! 
come , vial . 
and what to ? 
very glad i am he was not in this frighten . 
i would the fool were married to her wise ! 
no better . 
help me into a person house , benvolio , or i shall faint . 
dark is his love and best befits the in the dark . 
i am sped . 
ay mine , good luck in my own misery . 
as foolish , not for loyal , pupil mine . 
oh love ! 
welcome away from mantua . 
i will bite thee according to the paying attention for that act . 
welcome , gentlemen ! 
put up with the friar too . 
the son and heir of old tiberio . 
is he lost and hath not at all ? 
may not one talk to ? 
marry , sir , so that silver hath sweet to find out . 
i will forehead as i care about , and let them put up with it as they listen to . 
romeo will respond to it . 
my devastating play i must necessarily act alone . 
madam , i am here . 
now , in front of god , i am so stormy that every part about me quivers . 
if i did sleep under this tree , i dreamt my master and fought , and that my own slew him another yew here . 
is the time so young ? 
romeo can , though heaven cannot . 
what devil magic thou that dost torment me thus ? 
thus with a kiss i die . 
put up with some new affection to look at , and the good poison out of the old people will die . thy thou 
i will put up with no crotchets . 
i would i were thy bird . 
any man that can bear may respond to a letter . 
did ever dragon keep up so good to cave ? 
hast thou no letters to me away from the friar ? 
peter , wait for in the way . 
go tell him about this . 
believe , i know what to say not . 
i will go call the watch . 
what , shall this speech be spoke for our pardon ? 
give me my sin again . 
what is her mother ? 
i will be honest to you that i love him . 
young son , indicates a power so quickly bid good morning to bed thy to it insane . 
one of them fought in this wicked strife , and all those twenty could that kill one person . twenty 
of sadness , cousin , i do love a woman . 
look for , seek , and find out how much like this foul murder comes . 
a man , young lady ! 
as long as love be blind , love cannot fall in the pay attention . 
perhaps you have wise it without deed . 
tybalt , my cousin ! 
where the devil should be like this romeo ? 
as i remember , this should be the house . 
you are too hot . 
shame come to romeo ! 
tell me , my good friend , what is that vainly gives his eyes to worms and blind skulls over there torch ? 
who calls so loud ? 
every one prepare to aim at this good corpse to her serious . 
oh sad ! 
now he is for the numbers if petrarch traveled of . 
is it e 'en so ? 
the time is very short . 
that to be free , and make it thee again . 
where is my mother ? 
monday ! 
to our house . 
what hast thou found ? 
good evening to my holy confessor . 
will you go to them ? 
thou canst not speak of that thou dost not sound out . 
can i go ahead when my heart is here ? 
look , sir , here comes the noble toward my cell . 
ay , madam , away from the reach of these my hands . 
what is the matter ? 
a very good pay attention , good cousin , is soonest fall in . 
no , not till thursday . 
as much to him , else is his thanks too much . 
be calm , you mumbling fool ! 
on a name i know how to say thee who i am not . 
tell me , daughter juliet , how much positions your state of mind to be married ? 
thou wast never with me for anything when thou wast not there for the whore . 
or shall we of without explanation ? 
romeo , away , be gone ! 
pitiful sight ! 
what , wilt thou wash him away from his deadly with tears ? 
because of my end , i care not . 
could you not put up with some reason without giving ? 
tis he , that servant romeo . 
you need my help ? 
oh , oh me me ! 
come , what says romeo ? 
his son was that to defend two years ago . 
take care of ! 
put up with thou that . 
what , lamb ! 
what , ho ! 
just now , my lord , what you say to my suit ? 
we talk here in the public company of men . 
in love ? 
without his roe , like a dried herring . 
oh , romeo romeo ! 
you go to bed . 
stay you well ! 
for all that i think it nor can learn from him . 
no , my good lord . 
the reward innocent ? 
what says romeo ? 
saint francis be my good luck ! 
good romeo , hide thyself . 
what pretend did i give you ? 
i am the latest of that name , as bad luck with a worse . 
father , what news ? 
it is not yet intimate with time . 
so will you , i am well , that you love me . 
why , marry ! 
have you delivered to her our decide ? 
to call for , because of my life . 
all right , peace be with you , sir . 
supper is done , and we shall come too late . 
thou shalt not go one running away to seek to foe . 
what , magic thou hurt ? 
see where she comes away from confession with well look for . 
who shave my letter , then , to romeo ? 
her virgin service is that pale and weak , and no that fools do have it . 
tis late . 
do you see that i am not out of breath ? 
do as i bid thee , go . 
even if thou agree to minstrels of us , take care to hear not at all that discords . 
she is not brave ? 
oh sad day ! 
do not refuse to him that you love me . 
how much canst thou aim at them so ? 
the boy makes warning a little doth come . 
why , may one call for ? 
what can , it cannot match the change that one minute makes me in her sight . short be happy in sorrow that turn out 
god thee pay attention to his fortune ! 
do so , and bid my sweet prepare to chide . 
no , cousin , i rather weep . 
she will write him for some supper . 
bring me to your daughter . 
dost thou not give birth to me letters away from the friar ? 
good morning to you both . 
hurry , you agree to hurry , as it grows very recently . 
henceforward go on your messages yourself . 
wilt thou bring about me ? 
whither should they come ? 
ay , boy , quickly . 
oh heavens ! 
it will not be ? 
very half an hour . 
ready to be , but never to answer . 
worry about me not . 
how much that wise men have no eyes , when they should ? 
put out of her , worthless ! 
they call for times and quinces in the pastry . 
oh sad day ! 
if i call for again , not at all can be bad as long as she be all right for . 
put out against you ! 
so thrive my soul- a thousand times good night ! 
what he can tell by like this ? 
they wash his wounds with tears ? 
shut up . 
because of my age , i was your mother very these years that you are now in human against . 
what news is like this ? 
oh reward , reward , how much magic thou fishified ! 
i do petition you , sir , have patience . 
magic thou a man ? 
if i were so ready to claim as any man should pay for the value of my life for an hour of point . and innocent thou magic , 
i hear someone news . 
claim , sir ? 
be thou to juliet , help to cover shut up her . 
all right , look of marriage now . 
ay , pilgrim , lips that they must need of prayer . 
oh wild unthankfulness ! 
so shalt thou show me friendship . 
he is wise , and , in my life , hath stol 'n him right away to bed . 
who strikes so cruel ? 
ay , indeed . 
look for thou that , and i am proof in front of their enmity sweet . 
i hear someone news among . 
what , dost thou agree to us minstrels ? 
come here , man . 
am i do such a wife ? 
ay , ay , the cords . 
i will be gone , sir , and not trouble you . 
what another sad plots in front of mine old age ? 
whose house ? 
nay , noble romeo , we must have you dance . 
bliss be against you ! 
answer me like men . 
god of heaven bless her ! 
i know all right where he is . 
in bed with the montagues ! 
how long hath he been there ? 
no reason . 
dost thou love me ? 
oh deadly sin ! 
the sun all-seeing nor 'er saw her victory when before the world begun . 
and yet i hope that for the thing i have to do . 
i know not . 
farewell ! 
pay according to that . 
send thy man away . 
some help , take care of . 
this is all right . 
was ever deed matter such lowly reason so completely ready ? 
wherefore storm you so ? 
now god of heaven bless thee ! 
that may be , sir , when i may be a woman . 
madam ! 
it was . 
come with me to the sky . 
your mother . 
what you say ? 
in bed with the capulets ! 
who is it ? 
i pray , sir , you can read ? 
amen ! 
my noble uncle , do you know the reason ? 
farewell , my cousin . 
why , she is within . 
or , as long as his pay attention to be letter , give me his letter . 
why the devil came you between us ? 
thou dost not pay attention me . 
therefore that he cannot lick his fingers goes not with me . 
who now the value of his noble blood doth have ? 
where is my romeo ? 
hark you , sir . 
hast thou met with him ? 
these are news indeed ! 
of madness most judicious , in choking pain , and a preserving sweet . 
where is she ? 
my fan , peter . 
i will go along . 
no , sir . 
come , go , go , go ! 
she speaks , yet she says not at all . 
ah me ! 
your plantain leaf is excellent for that . 
will you tell me that ? 
but what you say to thursday ? 
this same should be the talk about of friar john . 
go on that thou wilt , as i have done with thee . 
wait for , tybalt , put up with ! 
yet i should kill thee with great cherishing . 
let me be here till thou remember it . 
i will be quick , for my brief time of life is not so long as is a tedious story . 
let me deal with with thee of thy bestow on . 
he said not so ? 
take it in what sense thou wilt . 
ay , because of my truth , the state may be healed . 
hang him , jacket ! 
take care of ? 
good spirit , to what ? 
is your hidden man ? 
what ? 
the prince will sentence thee death as long as thou magic taken . 
the what ? 
i will tell for you . 
now go on you find out the reason for this hurry . 
it is the lark that sings so out of state of mind , straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps . 
you are in lustful boy . 
i do reward all right where i should be there , and i am . 
even if eagle , madam , not so weak , even though alive , so well if stare at that paris hath hath . 
miserable good luck ! 
not brave you have to do , that thankful that you have to do . 
what is it else ? 
go to bed thou there . 
no . 
all right , sir . 
how much happens my juliet ? 
thus then of letter : the worthy paris seeks you for his love . 
a very good markman ! 
monday , my lord . 
spakest thou of juliet ? 
no more talk . 
in any case friendly is my dear son with such harsh company . 
what , magic thou drawn among these cowardly servants ? 
where should be she ? 
god you good morning , gentlemen . 
you shall natural enough to that , sir , even if you will make me want . find me 
be shut up . 
hold on , then . 
good night , good night ! 
how is it with her ? 
oh honest ! 
why , is not like this better now than groaning for love ? 
hark you , your romeo will be here at night . 
hath romeo slain himself ? 
on top of thursday , sir ? 
your part of her you could not attend to death , but heaven protects his part of life immortal away from . 
agree to hurry , in case mine up to be your ears before it be out of . 
what , are you busy , ho ? 
and so did i. 
and believe me , love , in my look so go on you . 
put out , you baggage ! 
give me thy work . 
how much now ? 
was that my old man that went away from here so fast asleep ? 
how much doth my lady ? 
clubs , promissory notes , and partisans ! 
oh me ! 
what is this ? 
this shall be decided that . 
there lives that tybalt . 
as i nor 'er saw true beauty till this night . 
i have forgot why did i call thee back . 
the citizens are shut up , and tybalt slain . 
if there were two such , we should have no shortly , for one would kill the other . nay , 
yea , news ? 
so shall you sound out the destruction , but not the friend which you weep for . 
wilt thou be gone ? 
i was hurt down your power . 
madam , your mother needs to speak with you . 
have not saints lips , and holy palmers too ? 
the other did not so . 
i know not , sir . 
your houses ! 
oh , teach me how i should forget to look ! 
why dost thou press thy hands ? 
madam , i am not well . 
it makes me angry . 
even so , even if she lives blubbering weeping , weeping and blubbering . 
thou wouldst else have made thy story free . 
oh , be gone ! 
hurry to your bedroom . 
this is the truth , or let benvolio die . 
maybe she cannot fight with him . 
i have to do . 
tell him so yourself , and see how he will take it in your hands . 
have to thee , coward ! 
still let me weep for such a feeling loss . 
my bare weapon is out of . 
woman ! 
and why , my noble wisdom ? 
here comes the cruel tybalt back again . 
ay , the powers of the servants , or their maidenheads . 
can you not stay awhile ? 
we are ruined , lady , we are ruined ! 
i petition thee youth , not sin against my head on urging me to fury , make another . 
i will kiss thy lips . 
for what intend to do , love ? 
according to the time for nine . 
you know not what you do . 
take care of , bring me to thy lady and mistress . 
earlier than she are lucky mothers made . 
and be happy speaks well in such a needy time . 
whence come you ? 
is my old man well ? 
i strike quickly , being upset . 
oh , wilt thou part with me so insatiable ? 
a greater power than we can oppose hath thwarted our intentions . 
then have my lips the sin that they have took . 
then weep no more . 
that just struck nine . 
oh cousin , cousin ! 
what shall i swear by ? 
all right , we were born to die . 
if he hear thee , thou wilt anger him . 
be patient , instead of the world is free and full . 
hast thou not to speak with be happy ? 
i beg for justice , which thou , noble , must give up . 
away from here , be gone , away ! 
be calm , ho , instead of shame ! 
tybalt , that murderer , which way ran man ? 
i will follow you . 
believe , we may put up with our voices and be gone . 
put up with thy soldier , or use it to leave these men with me . 
what , not to say ? 
then she is well , and not at all can be wrong . 
sweet , so would i. 
according to 'r lady , thirty years . 
marry , that , i think , be young petruchio . 
hurry to noble good luck ! 
what news is here ? 
to account for that , i should be honest to you . 
on top of her like an too soon frost against the sweetest flower of all the field . death lives 
worthless boy ! 
this cannot anger him . 
you are a lover . 
that dreamers often go to bed . 
that wherefore , villain , didst thou break my cousin ? 
madam , good night . 
i will then give it you strongly . 
give me those flowers . 
romeo slew him ; he slew mercutio . 
leave me and go on the thing i bid thee go on . 
give me thy torch , boy . 
worry about comes against me . 
here comes your father . 
a jealous hood , a jealous hood ! 
for what , i pray thee ? 
away with the joint-stools , go the court-cupboard , take care to the plate . 
tis only one . 
i talk to no treason . 
the pardon that thou dost go in this delay is longer than the story thou dost pardon . 
oh hurt , thou magic ready to enter into in the thoughts of dangerous men ! 
kind ! 
do you bite your thumb to us , sir ? 
i will tell you thither . 
what about that ? 
all right , in that fall in you do without . 
the time is out of such prolixity . 
do you claim , sir ? 
i am for you . 
the reason that i have to love thee doth very explain the appropriate fighting for such a speech . tybalt , 
my husband is on earth , my trust in heaven . 
i am peppered , i promise , instead of this world . 
noble mercutio , make thy rapier shut up . 
fie , fie ! 
i have more care to put up with than will to be . 
bring me to thy lady , and all the house to bed , which sad sorry makes them likely to her bid hasten . 
call , good mercutio . 
she is too good , very wise , wisely very well , to reward bliss by making me despair . 
why , what is tybalt ? 
two of the fairest stars in all the heaven , having some business , go on her eyes to send of their spheres till they pass deal with . 
just or alone , with all hours in the year , come lammas eve at night she shall be fourteen . 
hast thou slain tybalt ? 
you say all right . 
romeo shall thank thee , daughter , instead of us both . 
if i might live to see thee married one day , i have my hope . 
then tell at once what thou dost find out of this . 
i would not for the world they saw thee here . 
do you think of this hurry ? 
what will you give us ? 
that thou magic not quickly upset to strike . 
nay , i am the very tiny of good manners . 
there is the world enough . 
you are to blame , my lord , to be worth her so . 
farewell . 
benvolio , who began like this bloody frighten ? 
pause in mantua . 
what is your will ? 
hard sorry drinks our blood . 
oh most wicked fiend ! 
my sword , i say ! 
what , raise thee , man ! 
come here , take care of . 
come , death , and welcome ! 
three words , noble romeo , and good night indeed . 
why , how much now , juliet ? 
death , that hath ta 'en her away from here to agree to me , shut up my words and will not let me talk to grieve forces . 
why dost thou wait for ? 
what early speak so sweet saluteth me ? 
was never seen so of death of time that like this . 
you speak honestly . 
then have to thee , boy ! 
romeo . 
what he says of our marriage ? 
oh life ! 
what servant , madam ? 
bring me to thy lady . 
i will forget about no opportunity that may carry on my greetings , love , to thee . 
i do that attend to the peace . 
can heaven be so malicious ? 
i will go up to , and all things shall be all right , i promise thee , woman . tush , 
yea , is the evil well ? 
oh , pardon me for bringing these bad news , when did you leave it for my duty , sir . 
so ho ! 
what if this mixture do not to work so ? 
i thought for all the best . 
is love to take care of being ? 
that is so that the traitor murderer lives . 
good night . 
one fairer than my love ? 
not , i believe me . 
hold on him in safety till the noble come here . 
i will not wrong . 
oh brother montague , give me thy work . 
we found him in the churchyard . 
i think he told me paris should have married juliet . 
romeo ! 
i was with you there for the whore ? 
tis no time to play now . 
away from here , and be aloof . 
mistress ! 
young romeo is it ? 
call her out of to me . 
look , and thou shalt attend to . 
gentlemen , can any of you tell me where i may find out the young romeo ? 
i have to do it , and in full too . 
where are the worthless beginners in this frighten ? 
then i doubt you , stars ! 
thy drugs are alive . 
i do bite my thumb , sir . 
peter ! 
here comes my man . 
well , what was yours ? 
your lady mother is coming to your bedroom . 
strike ! 
come , and look at her face with some that i shall , and i will agree to look thy swan a crow . thee look compete with unattainted thither 
believe , i can tell her old age to an hour . 
you will not then ? 
oh woman , just as our daughter bleeds ! 
romeo is coming . 
tis now to the point night . 
give me that mattock and the wrenching sword . 
oh lord , they fight ! 
i do as good a man as you . 
come , come here . 
